OK so I want to talk about controlled and uncontrolled components control component.
It's whenever we use react in 100 percent of that sample we use react 100 percent.
OK.
And an uncontrolled component.
It's whenever we bypass react for example using graphs.
The best example and this comes directly from re-act playbook it's working with forms.
So I have a component right here and I'm going to just create just transfer and transform this to a
control component.
Now we just have just one form with a name and a last name and we have just one default state.
And I want to do whenever we type something inside here I want to update the state.
Right.
So we know this.
We did this in the past with the events of the onchange events.
So it's the same idea going to do on and then change.
And whenever we call the On Change when we are we are getting that event once call to a function and
this function is going to be call handle name and then change whether we go right here and cannot just
create this function.
This function is going to be fat R-OH function.
And whenever we call this function we pass on an event.
So I'm going to put events as in arguments.
Now since we have this function what we can do we can update the state.
So I'm going to do this.
Dodd said state and I'm going to update the state of name.
It's going to say name that cone.
And here we have divans say event target dot value.
We've overdid this before.
OK.
Just to save time I'm going to do the same thing the same logic with the last name is going to be handle
last.
Last Name the last name.
Let's go get a copy of this going to copy the function at the bottom.
Just copy and paste for now going to change the name of the function and instead of updating the state
of name going to update the last name that will get no errors.
So it means that this is get.
Now I want to just check whatever we are getting on the new state whenever we update the state.
I want to see it.
So I'm going to use the component will update remember with a component when update we pass the next
prompts and the next state so we can bew we can just inspect the next state.
OK that's fine.
There is no need to lose time with this.
I'm going to just reload the page and if I enter Francis we are getting it right here on the new state
then the next date.
So we get the name of Francis.
Are Just updating the state successfully.
And if I do last name of Jones Jones we got name and last name of John.
So the state is fine.
We are updating the state.
OK.
So this form this component.
It's still an uncontrolled components.
We are managing everything through react and the state.
But the thing is that the whenever we entered a war here just of some characters we're doing it doing
it directly with Dawn.
We are just entering the information manually.
We are we are just interacting with the impot directly.
And this is under control behavior because we react.
It's not controlling whatever it's happening inside the input it's just getting what what it's inside
the input but it's not assigning a body to the input.
So to make this a control component instead of just just living this set is what we can do and I'm just
going to riddle the application for now going to go right here and I'm going to just say value and this
value is going to be empty.
Let me show something.
Right now I'm going to just type some letters and notice that nothing is going to happen.
And right here you can see in the state that for each key I'm hitting is just adding that to the state.
But it's just one letter.
The thing is that whenever the application starts it's going to render this components and the value
is going to be empty.
OK.
I'm going to go right here.
Type eletter reactor is going to grab the letter is going to update the state and it's going to read
render this form.
But the banlieue is still going to be empty.
So we always get an an empty value.
So what we need to do right here to update the values right here is we have the values on the state.
What we can do instead of just putting nothing all you can do is just put the state is going to be this
that state that name and begin to do the same thing for the last name so we can save time to put this
one right here.
OK so if i type of f we get an F O on a mistake is not a state of name.
State of last name and it's reloaded.
And if I type Francis is going is working.
We get the update state and everything it's managed through react react.
It's handling whatever is happening right here on the input.
So we are not putting the values manually react it's doing this and this is a perfect example of a controlled
computing component.
Everything it's managed through re-act is matched by react.
Let's go to the next section.
I'm going to convert this to an uncontrolled component using refs and we can see we can check the difference
between creating a controlled and an uncontrolled component.